Minor edits (#4)
lkalvoda/DHH23_early-modern_classification-eval: README.md

provide the two highest value predictions. This 'second most likely class' in the CLIP3 data and the above information on categories and keywords make CLIP3 ideal for further analysis. The results could shed light on specifications desirable for work with similar Enlightenment era book illustrations.

In the hackathon outcomes, only classification entries with min. 50% accuracy for the first candidate were included into the
analyses and subsequent interpretation. However, the accurracy span was wide in all three runs. In this task, I summarise these tendencies, verify them with close-reading, and speculate on their possible reasons and outcomes. I do this on the data for the third run (CLIP3), for the following reasons:
- the data from this run also provides the second most probable category the model assigned to each entry, which can shed light on the model's behaviour with this type of a dataset
- the model used in the third run was already customised based on human-annotated feedback on the previous two

### Primary data
A spreadsheet containing (per image):
- its URL (from a database containing all images from the dataset; for qualitative close-reading analysis)

> - CLIP3 first-choice category and the certainty score of that classification (score is based on training data; for CLIP3, this is human-produced image classification annotations; sme for the second-choice)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- CLIP3 first-choice category and the certainty score of that classification (score is based on training data; for CLIP3, this is human-produced image classification annotations; same for the second-choice)
```

- the data from this run also provides the second most probable category the model assigned to each entry, which can shed light on the model's behaviour with this type of a dataset
- the model used in the third run was already customised based on human-annotated feedback on the previous two

### Primary data
A spreadsheet containing (per image):
- its URL (from a database containing all images from the dataset; for qualitative close-reading analysis)
- CLIP3 first-choice category and the certainty score of that classification (score is based on training data; for CLIP3, this is human-produced image classification annotations)
- CLIP3 second-choice category and the certainty score of that classification

### Secondary data
A spreadsheet containing (per every image from CLIP3 first-choice):
- its URL (see Primary data)
- CLIP3 first-choice category (see Primary data)
- evaluation score of that classification (i.e., a percentage score expressing the probability of a human annotator classifying an image as belonging in the same first-choice category as CLIP3 did; based on human-annotated control batch produced by the group)

> Various visualisations based on the above spreadsheet (created during the hackathon)

Author: Hackathon is capitalized everywhere else, although personally I like it more lowercase

> Various visualisations based on the above spreadsheet (created during the Hackathon)

Author: Hackathon is capitalized everywhere else, although personally I like it more lowercase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Various visualisation on the above spreadsheet (created during the Hackathon)
```

## Research question(s), hypotheses
RQ: Do the certainty scores in CLIP3 predictions correspond to the actual categories and/or visual form of the images classified, and, if so, then what are the tendencies? Is there significant variation in performance between categories? Are there CLIP3 predictions not corresponding to human classification in cases classified by CLIP with low/high confidence? What can we conclude about the performance of a model thus customised?

> **H0:** There are no significant patterns in the performance of CLIP3 across certainty levels and categories.

Author: does *fals.* really need to be shortened? (two lines below)

Reviewer: I'd say _falsification_ -> keep

## Methods, results

> To answer the above, I examined the 'first-choice category' values in the primary data, focussing mainly on the highest and the lowest confidence values to scan the data for possible patterns. To interpret any tendencies found, I used preliminary evaluation data produced during the Hackathon ('Secondary data' above), and close-reading of the images themselves. 

Author: I just learned that *focussing* is a correct form and I hate it with a passion 🔥  I could get over the antiquated feel, but not over the hint of *cussing*

*From now on I'm only ever using ʙɪᴀꜱꜱɪɴɢ and ʙɪᴀꜱꜱᴇᴅ*

To test H4a/b and H5a/b, I started by filtering out entries with the highest and the lowest first-choice confidence scores in the following ranges:<br>
To test H4a/b and H5a/b, I started by filtering out entries with the highest and the lowest first-choice confidence scores in the following ranges:

**'Low-confidence' subset**  (2734 entries)<br>
      x ∈ [0;30) <br>

> i.e.  0 ≤ x < 30.(0)

Author: I think one of these is clear enough – I'd prefer `0.0 ≤ x < 30.0`, but I left the other one as that's the format you use in the tables

*Table 5 Detailed distribution of entries per certainty score range in the 'High-confidence' subset*

> Next (this further narrowing down of the subsets was mainly due to the high number of entries especially in the second subset), I took a random sample of approximately 270 entries (guided by: 10% of 'Low-confidence' subset). The distribution across the 'Score ranges' (See Table 4 above) was weighted by the respective number of entries in these; i.e., for the 'Low-confidence' subset:

Author: I think it would be easier to read if the parenthetical clause was its own sentence

| Score range | Number of entries for analysis |
| :---------- | :------------------------------|
| [15-20)     | 2                              |
| [20-25)     | 65                             |
| [25-30)	  | 203                            |
| **Σ**       | **270**                        | 

*Table 6 Number of entries for analysis in the 'Low-confidence' subset*

> I close-read the randomly generated entries to verify whether the CLIP3 classification given for each of these corresponds to my own (i.e., human-produced) classification. I noted this down in a 0-1 system. I annotated both the first- and the second-choice classification in this manner, and the close-reading analysis results follow below. Table 7 shows the four annotation possibilities and the actual distribution of these among the 270 entries annotated:<br>

Author: two *below*s

> ## Conclusions

Author: The proportions above could also be expressed as percentages (% correct of total entries), for me that would be quicker to understand

(Github won't let me comment on some unchanged lines 🙈)

Furthermore, coming back to Table 13 and regarding the third and fourth row can be as one category ('correct' in either case), we can take a closer look at the development from row 1 to row 2 to rows 3/4 (i.e., 0-0 = completely incorrect (neither choice is correct) -> 0-1 = possibly approaching correct first choice -> correct).<br>
We can see a trend approaching decreasing (101-79-90) on this 'correctness scale' in the 'Low-confidence' subset.
In the 'Mid-confidence' subset, the 'measure of approaching correctness', let us call it, is increasing (46-77-147).<br>
In the 'High-confidence' subset, it is also increasing somewhat (13-15-242), but the divide is much sharper between strictly taken 'incorrect' and 'correct'.<br>
This suggests that it could be worthwhile to examine further whether the higher the reported certainty score for a prediction is, the higher its chance for correctness actually is, as compared to human annotations. While these preliminary figures look promising, they are produced in a rather simple way, and cannot be taken as evidence for such a trend. 

**H2: CLIP3 performed significantly better in one or more categories (as compared to other categories)**, and

> **H3: CLIP3 performed significantly worse in one or more categories (as compared to other categories)** had to be considered beyond the scope of this task. However, hopefully its results will provide useful background for anyone who might decide to examine them in the future (however, NB that the dataset itself is available upon request).

Author: what is NB?

**H4a: A significant amount of first-choice classifications made by CLIP3 does not correspond to human classification in those cases where CLIP3 states low prediction confidence**, and

> **H4b: A significant amount of second-choice classifications made by CLIP3 does not correspond to human classification in those cases where CLIP3 states low prediction confidence** are both supported by this task's analysis, meaning that neither choice given was actually correct when its confidence score was low (Although NB the second-choice caveat as referred to also in HBb right below).

Author: also NB + `HBb` may have been supposed to be `H5b`?

Reviewer: 🅱️

> For the overview collected for H4a/b, it could be directly applicable to get more information on the patterns in the 0-1 category. Close-reading analysis could provide directions for specification alterations to get the result to 'flip' to 1-0 or 1-1. The correct second-choice classification might be a very useful lead for a relatively low-effort boost (cf. e.g., the 0-0 case).<br>

Author: Even if I knew what `cf.` meant, two abbreviations in a row seem a bit much 😅

The evidence collected for H4a/b being true aligns with the low certainty levels given by CLIP3 for the classification instances in the 'Low-confidence' subset. Also in the light of this, we would expect the opposite tendency in the 'High-confidence' subset.

Based on observation from the close-reading analysis, it might be beneficial to redefine the 'Architecture' category. Images often fall between this and other categories (particularly 'Mathematics/Geometry/Astronomy' - building plan v 'generic' geometric drawing, as opposed to a hand-drawn column or building). One option might be to re-name the category and revise its keywords, so that it doesn't include any plans. Another one could be to split it between 'Mathematics/Geometry/Astronomy', 'Botany', 'Miscellaneous/Other', ...).

> As already mentioned in the analysis included in the H1 part, it might be useful to confirm or deny a (direct? exponential?) proportionality between a prediction's certainty score, and its actual correctness.

Author: `direct? exponential?` 👀
